# Journal — Week 5

I personally prefer visual or interactive experiences over purely audial experiences, so while listening to a podcast or sonification is convenient and hands-free when one's ears are otherwise unoccupied, it's a slow way of distributing/consuming digital history that doesn't realistically allow the user to consume the content at their own pace or in their own tailored manner.

There are pros and cons to the approach I took with creating a static website. With static websites, all the Jekyll themes available on GitHub Pages were overkill for the use case. With all the whitespace, a user's focus wouldn't immediately be on the content of the page if they were to visit the website, especially as in this case, it was just a series of hyperlinks in an unordered list. But I think it would be worse if there were images or tables. If I used static websites to show off my work, I would explore using a much more minimalist template or starting from scratch with simple HTML and maybe even no CSS at all. For this same reason, many gallery websites—not necessary of visual arts, often of historical documents as well—have simple white (or solid colour) backgrounds, so that there is no focus taken away from the content.

Podcasting, Sonification, StoryMaps, and Leaflets didn't resonate too much with me. Due to time constraints, I didn't spend as much time on creating a poster as I normally would, but posters can vary highly in quality. Even so, they're limited and it's tough to make them reflect well on the work; the layout of the poster is more interesting than the works it's meant to showcase. I think static websites are truly the most capable of painting the best picture of my historian's craft, even if it was just hyperlinks this time and not so visual. The tools used for mapping this week were highly impressive, though for the most part, maps aren't very compelling to me, and I was not very inspired to continue using the tools or make similar tools of my own.

* With the brief StoryMap I made, I tried to be informative enough by using real historical facts and images, while using clever word choice to make it sound like an epic saga of a hero on a mission. I also made sure to refer to specific locations that could be compared with those pinned on the map, for example, locations relative to the position of the Nile.
* With the podcast, I spoke whatever came to mind for about five two minutes, unscripted and unedited. That tells a story of authenticity, sincerity, genuineness and down-to-earthedness; it's more believable, and the casual tone and simple, unrehearsed language suggests it's unhearsed even if I am actually coming up with stuff on the spot. 
* Though sonification is an interesting way of visualizing historical data, it's more of a supplemental material, like if it were used as background music with a visualization in a video and shouldn't be used to help the average person understand historical data on its own. I guess it could also be important in an audio-only radio show about history. My first attempt was mostly guesswork and felt rather abstract.
* WIth the static website, I was not going for any particular design choices or story (other than picking a simple and predictable template); in this case, the website wasn't ambitious and the goal was to have a simple navigation.
